#school #CS-1300 
### Integer Variables 
- char                      1 byte                                        -128 to 127
- short                    2 bytes                                -32,768 to 32,767
- int                         4 bytes                       -2,147,483,648 to 2,147,483,647
- unsigned int      4 bytes                                0 to 4,294,967,295
- long long            8 bytes                  ( for numbers that exceed about 2 billion )

### Floating Point Numbers
- float                       4 bytes
- double                  8 bytes
- long double       12 bytes
- stored in a form similar to scientific notation
- all floating-point numbers are signed ( positive or negative )

### Variable Initialization
- You can assign an initial value to a variable when defined. 

- You can initialize some variables, but not others that are all defined on the same line, too. 

## Constant Variables
- Start a variable definition with const to define a constant variable. The compiler will report an error if a later statement tries to change that variables value. 
	const double SALES_TAX = 9.75;
	const int MONTHS = 12;

### Characters
- A character literal is surroinded with single quotes, as in 'm' or '%'
	char middleInitial = 'R' ; //Correct!
- Warning! Don't use double quotes instead of single quotes!
	char middleInitial = "R"; //Wrong!!

### Strings / String Literals
- A sequence of characters is called a string.
- A string literal uses double quotes. Example: "Abracadabra!"

### String Variables
- A string data type isn't built into C++ like char, int, or double ( primitive data types)

### Getting Strings from the User
- Use this fi the string the user will enter WON'T CONTAIN spaces
	cout << "What is your first name?" ;
	cin >> name;
- Use the getline() function instead to allow the user to enter text with spaces ( this is the safer way to read in string data)
	cout << "What is your first name?" ;
	getline(cin, name) ;

- The getline() function will read all user text on the input line 

### Cin.ignore
- Every time you go from cin >> to getline(), you must use cin.ignore 
- put it after extraction ( cin >> )

### Identifiers
- An identifier is a name created by a programmer (Like naming your variables). 
Below are the rules for creating good identifiers

1. Descriptive - Choose a good name for a variable that describes what the variable is going to hold
2. No Keywords (reserved words) - A reserved word (or keyword) is a word that is apart of the language, like int or main
3. First Character - Must be a-z, A-Z, or _
4. After First Character - Must be a-z, A-Z, 0-9, or _

also case sensitive 


