#school #CS-1300 
# Classes / Objects intro
- An [object] consists of [data] plus [operations] that can be performed on that data. 
- A [class] is like a blueprint and objects are like houses built from the blueprint. 

### Classes
- [Attributes]: members of a class
- [Member functions]: methods or functions of a class
- [Encapsulation]: combining data and member functions into an object (and making sure to hide the data)

##### Data or information hiding: 
- Restricting access to certain members of an object. 

- A real-world program is never written by one person. Every C++ program we have written so far has used objects (cin, cout, string)
- [Object-oriented programming (OOP)] is great because programmers can re-use code more easily...this is called [object reusability]. 

### Object Interface
- What do I need to know in order to drive a lamborghini?
- The car's [user interface]! (steering wheel, gear shift, gas pedal, brake, ignition, mirrors)
- Programmers should separate an [object's interface] from its implementation. The user of an object only needs to know the interface. 

# Class Syntax

```C++
class ClassName
{
	//class members go here
	//which include attributes &
	//member functions
};
```

- Defining the Book Class
```C++
// class declaration
class Book
{
	//attributes
	private:
	int numPages;
	string title;
	float price;
	//member functions
	public:
	void setNumPages(int);
	int getNumPages()const;
};
```

to call this:
```C++
int main()
{
	Book myFavoriteBook;
	myFavoriteBook.setNumPages(156);
	...
}
```

### Defining the Book Class
- The "private" [access specifier] - which is a keyword that allows the programmer to DISALLOW direct access to all members declared after this specifier.
- All attributes should typically be private.

- The "public" [access specifier] - which is a keyword that allows the programmer to ALLOW direct access to all members declared after this specifier. 

##### Access Specifiers:
- Can be listed in any order in a class
- Can appear multiple times in a class
- If not specified, the default is private

## function definition
- The programmer defines the details of each member function (function definiton) in the class implementation (usually).
```C++
void Book::setNumPages(int num)
{
	//numPages does not have to be defined, since it is attribute in  class definition. 
	numPages = num;
}
```
- The [scope resolution operator] - :: informs the compiler that this function is a member function of the Book class. 
- [const] informs the compiler that this function will not be modifying the value of any attributes. 
```C++
int Book::getNumPages() const // <--
{
	return numPages; 
}
```

# Types of Class Member Functions:
- [Mutators] / [setter]
- [Accessors] / [getter]
- [Private Helpers]
- [Constructors]
- [De-constructors]

### Mutator functions
-  [Mutator function] is a function that changes or mutates member data. (also called setter function). Below is an example of a mutator function.
```C++
void Book::setNumPages(int num) //never has const
{
	numPages = num;
}
```

### Accessor Functions
- An [accessor function] is a function that gets or accesses member data, but doesn't change it. (also called getter function). Below is an example of an accessor function. 
```C++
int Book::getNumPages() const
{
	return numPages;
}
```

## Private Member Functions
- A private member function can only be called by another member function
- It is used for internal processing by the class, not for use outside the class. 