#school #CS-1300 
# Data Type Conversion
- Data type hierarchy
The bigger the data type, the higher up on the hierarchy
ex: Long double. double float, long, int ( ordered from biggest to smallest )

##### Data Type Rules
1. Data types char & short automatically promoted to int. 
	- int x;
	- short y;
	- int z;
	- z = x + y;                  (the y gets converted to int)
2. When operating on values of different data types, the lower one is promoted to the type of the higher one. 
	- X + 5.9 + 14938.96 <- Long Double
3.  Result of the calculation gets prom/demo to whatever the data type of RESULT is. 
	- int result;
	- short num1 = 5; 
	- double num2 = 6.4;
	- result = num1 + num2;        ( num1 gets promoted to int because of rule 1, but since num2 is a double, num1 gets promoted to double.  )
	- Finally, the result of the calculation gets promoted or demoted to whatever data type the variable RESULT is. 

# Manually Convert a Data Type
- A programmer can precede an expression with static_cast{type}(expression) to convert the expression's value to the indicated type.
- This is known as type casting
- In the example below, myIntVar will be converted to a double temporarily on this one statement

```C++
int myIntVar = 7;
cout << static_cast<double>(myIntVar); //prints 7.0
```

### Formatting Floating-Point Numbers
- A programmer can adjust the way that ouput appears using stream manipulators
- To use stream manipulators, you must include iomanip.
- Most manipulators change all output for the rest of the program execution, not just the next output. 
- The following are floating-point manipulators that change the entire output stream:
	- setprecision(2) fixed;


## Don't use include bits/stdc++.h
- using this header file is only useful if you are in a programming competition
- Using this includes a lot of unecessary stuff and increases compilation time
- Also, this header file is not part of the C++ standard

