#school #CS-1300 
##### What can Pointers do for us?
- More efficient, faster programs
- Allows the programmer to create variables and/or arrays during the runtime of the program. (called dynamic memory allocation)

##### Arrays vs Linked List
- A vector/array is like people ordered by their seat in a theater row. If you want to insert yourself between two adjacent people, other people have to shift over to make room. Vectors/arrays suffer from the insert/erase performance problem. 
- A solution to this problem is a linked list, where the data is not in contigous memory locations and each item contains a "pointer" to the next item's location in memory. Inserting requires just changing what you are pointing to instead of moving all the elements. 

### Address Operator
- each variable in a program is stored at a unique address.
- Use address operater & to get the address of a variable

```c++
int num = 4;
cout << &num; //prints memory address in hexadeciaml

4de32
```

# Pointer 
- A variable that holds an address
- Because a pointer variable holds the address of another piece of data, it "points" to the data. 

- Another way of using a memory address to work with a piece of data
- Pointers are more "low-level" than arrays and reference variables

# Pointer Variables
- Define a pointer variable:
```c++
int *intptr;
```
- Read as "intptr can hold the address of an int"
- Spacing in defenition does not matter:
```C++
int * intptr;     // same as above
int* intptr;     // same as above
```

## Pointer Variables
- Assigning an address to a pointer variable:
```C++
int *intptr;
intptr = &num;
```

##### Initializing pointer variables
- In C++ 11, initialize pointer variables with the special value nullptr
```C++
int *ptr = nullptr;
```

- In prior versions of C++, initialize pointer variables with the special value NULL
```C++
int *ptr = NULL;
```


# Example : 
```C++
#include <iostream>
#include <iomanip>
using namespace std;

int main()
{
	int x = 25;
	int *ptr = NULL;

	cout << "The address in ptr before x : " << ptr << endl;
	ptr = &x;

	cout << "The address of x is " << &x << endl;
	cout << "The size of x is " << sizeof(x) << " bytes\n";
	cout << "The value in x is " << x << endl;
	cout << "The address of x is " << ptr << endl;

	return 0;
}
```

### The Indirection Operator
- The indirection operator (*) dereferences a pointer.
- It allows you to access the item that the pointer points to. 
```C++
int x = 25;
int *intptr = &x;

cout << *intptr << endl; 
// by adding the star, you are DEREFERENCING the memory address, it prints the value of x (25)
```

# Example 2:

```C++

int x = 25;
int *ptr;
ptr = &x; //store the address of x

cout << x << endl;     // Displays the contents of x
cout << *ptr << endl;  // Displays the contents of x

// assign 100 to the location 
*ptr = 100;

cout << x << endl; // prints 100
cout << *ptr << endl; // prints 100
cout << ptr << endl; // prints the memory address of x
```